Choose one of the following:
A) Contrast the three primary hypotheses for the evolution lekking. Describing evidence (or hypothetical evidence) in favor or refutation of one of three.
B) Contrast monogamy, polygyny, and polyandry, describing the factors that lead to the evolution of each breeding system. 

5 points: correctly list and define hypotheses (A) or define breeding systems (B). For (A), support for the hot shot model would involve spatial autocorrelation in reproductive success, e.g. males near a male with high reproductive success also have higher fitness than those farther away from a hotshot. Support for the hot spot model would involve males encountering females at higher rates at leks than elsewhere; support for the female preference model would involve a correlation between lek size (in number of males present) and number of female mating attempts. In (B), full credit involves describing where breeding systems fall on a plot of resource clustering versus parental care. 
3 points: 1 of 2 hypotheses / 1-2 methods out of three OR minor errors
1-2 points: good effort, but errors in description of hypotheses or technology 

Choose either A) the Interspecific Dominance Mimicry Hypothesis or B) the Direct Benefits Hypothesis. In the blank below, describe this hypothesis and its main predictions using either an example from class or a hypothetical experiment. In other words, what patterns does this hypothesis try to explain, and what data would be evidence in favor of it?

5 points: correctly define chosen hypothesis. For the IDMH (A), describe a prediction of reduced agression towards the mimic species; evidence from the citizen science Hairy / Downy Woodpecker study discussed in class or a description of a hypothetical study quantifying the number interactions and their outcomes among a group of species earns full credit. For the Direct Benefits hypothesis (B), evidence would involve a correlation between ornament quality and provisioning or nest attencence. 

3 points: Correct definition of hypotheses but incomplete / incorrect description of what evidence would support it (or vice versa). 
1-2 points: good effort, but errors in description of hypotheses or potential experiements. 

Contrast altricial and precocial growth, providing examples of species in each (broadly defined) category, describing their respective advantages and disadvantages, and comparing rates of tissue maturation versus tissue growth for each. 

5 points: correct definitions matched with correct species; some discussion of tradeoffs between high energetic investment in care (potentially leading to surer success) versus low investment in care but higher risk for precocial nestling. Identify tissue maturation as priority for precocial species and tissue growth as priority for precocial species. 
3-4 points: At least two of the three criteria above 
1-2 points: Good effort, but with errors 